I invented a new variant of chess called Magic Chess. It is inspired by both Spell Chess and Chaturaji, and is both a board game and a card game. Below is the instructions for the game. Let me know what you think!
 
are set up behind the pawns, from left to right: King, Wizard, Fairy, Frog. Shuffle the Spell Cards and deal three to each player. Every player should keep their Spell Cards hidden from the other players. Leave the remainder of the deck face-down near the board as a draw pile, leaving space for a discard pile.
 
**Download File ⚙ [https://eromdesre.blogspot.com/?d=2A0Sv6](https://eromdesre.blogspot.com/?d=2A0Sv6)**


 
Fairies move like a bishop or a knight. When executing the knight move, they MUST move two squares in one direction, then one square at a ninety-degree angle. This is important to remember if the Anti-Jump spell is applied to the Fairy.
 
The UI has clearly been designed with mobile users at its forefront. Buttons for using the store, unlocking spells, and levelling up are particularly prominent, and the lack of fine motor control provided by a mouse has likely contributed to the choice of a very small playing board. Armies are arranged on a 3x8 grid, dramatically capping tactical depth by taking an entire row away from the chess board-style layout that helped give the genre its name. Thanks to the introduction of several powerful units who confer important buffs on their closest allies, many of my most successful games have hinged on my ability to simply huddle all my fighters together in the centre of the board. Some loadouts have required a little more planning, but broadly, once your army is in place, there's little need to move it around, which feels jarring given the ever-evolving strategy of similar games.
 
As a response to the hyper-complexity of the MOBAs that spawned it, the relative simplicity of the autobattler as a genre seemed to have achieved all that it needed to. Yet Chess Royale has emerged as a streamlined, fast-paced alternative, each match finishing in half the time I might spend despairing over my Teamfight Tactics line-up. The dalliance with battle royale adds little to the conversation, but the pick-up-and-play approach is a welcome change to a genre that was never really about actually playing anyway.
 
*Magical Chessmen of Ultham-Urre*Basic Information[1]Other names*Chessmen of Ultham-Urre*,
*Chessmen*[1]TypeArtifactRules Information2nd Edition Statistics[1]AuraUnknownThe ***Magical Chessmen of Ultham-Urre*** were a set of chess pieces and magical artifacts created by the archmage Ultham, son of Urrekanam, of Chessenta in the 10th or early 11th centuries DR.[1]
 
Each of the *Chessmen* had a variety of strange magical powers. First, each of the red set functioned as a *ring of fire resistance* and each of the green set functioned as a *ring of lightning resistance*. This was a constant effect, provided it was held in a bearer's fist. For their other powers, the *Chessmen* had two command words, and these were the same two for every piece. To use these powers, the bearer needed to invoke one of command words and concentrate for a full minute without interruption, like with spellcasting.[2]

Second, a *Chessman* (bar the rooks) could transform a bearer (human, demihuman, or humanoid) into a hero of a nature and strength according to the color and rank of the chess piece, essentially becoming the figure it depicted. In the red set, pawns made lowly thieves, knights made mid-level fighters, bishops made mid-level clerics, kings made high-level fighters, and queens made high-level mages. In the green set, pawns made minor fighters, knights made mid-level rangers, bishops made mid-level druids, kings made high-level rangers and queens made high-level mages; bearers of the green set were required to follow the codes of behavior of their hero whilst transformed.[2]
 
To use this power, the piece must be held in the bearer's fist and the first command word invoked. The piece vanished and the bearer was transformed, losing their own special skills, weapon proficiencies, and spellcasting ability, while gaining those of an adventurer of the appropriate kind, though their options were fixed. They stayed transformed until an hour had passed, they said the first command word again, or they died. A different *Chessman* could not be used whilst transformed. When it was undone, the bearer became as they were, the chess piece in their hand, and their body restored of any injuries with a *heal* spell. The piece could not be used again until 24 hours had passed.[2]
 
Meanwhile, when used in the same way, a rook piece would turn into a small fortress, rather like a *Daern's instant fortress*. This lasted indefinitely, only turning back when the bearer said the first command word again, and the rook piece reappeared in their hand. All damage sustained by the fortress was repaired between these transformations.[2]
 
To use this power, the bearer must hold a *Chessman*, touch a non-living object to it, and then invoke the second command word, whereupon the object was disappear inside. If it was full, nothing would happen. To take things out again, the bearer must hold the *Chessman* without any object touching it, and then invoke the second command word, whereupon a random object inside would appear nearby by. Thus, recovering a specific object could be time-consuming if many others were kept inside. However, if it was empty, then a random object nearby would go inside instead.[2]
 
Originally, Ultham stocked the pieces with supplies: water, non-perishable food, armor, weapons, equipment, and spell components. These were appropriate to each chess piece and transformed hero, and some was thought to be magical itself. In any case, most sages expect that, with later owners and centuries of use, most or all of these original supplies would've been removed or lost and that by the mid-1300s DR, they would hold just about anything, or even nothing. This could even be quite hazardous for an unlucky storage hunter.[2]
 
While not actually cursed, the *Chessmen* were incredibly hard to keep in one's possession because of a strange magically quasi-magnetic property of the enchanted luspeel that saw them attracted and teleported to large pieces of enchanted steel, such as a magical sword, shield, or suit of armor. If a bearer of a *Chessman* had a piece of magical steel in their possession, the *Chessman* would become attuned to it in three or four days, and ignore it from then on. However, if the bearer passed somebody else with a piece of magical steel of their own, one the *Chessman* had not been in the vicinity of previously, there was a one-in-a-hundred chance the *Chessman* would teleport across and appear nearby, such as in a backpack or pouch. If the passerby already had a *Chessman* of their own, nothing would happen.[3]
 
If there were multiple *Chessman* in the bearer's possession, then each had the same chance of teleporting away. However, rather than being separated long-term and scattered across the land, the *Chessmen* would follow each other. Every hour after the first to teleport, another random piece would teleport to that lucky passer-by until they had the full set in their possession.[3]
 
No physical barrier or magical safeguard could prevent them teleporting. Inorganic, non-magical objects attached to a *Chessman* (by being tied to, strapped on, or wrapped around) could be taken along as well. However, living things and magical items were never taken.[3]
 
Then, several years later, the lord of Maerduuth (at the time a large city) desired to annex Oslin and sent an expeditionary force, thinking it defenseless. But the farmers, fishers, and traders of Oslin used the *Chessmen* to transform themselves into a company of strong soldiers, supported by potent mages and priests, that routed the Maerduuth force. A second expeditionary force didn't come back at all. Thereafter, the lord of Maerduuth and the neighboring powers elected to just ignore Oslin altogether.[4]
 
While there were no reports of any of the *Chessmen* being found or identified since then, several rumors had them appearing all around Faern.[4] Just locating them, let alone determining their command words, was expected to take a quest for countless bits of obscure information.[2] The adventurer Wilund tried to find them, and gave *The Alcaister*, an antique spellbook, to the sage Ardagundus of Baldur's Gate in exchange for information on their functions and whereabouts; it is unknown if Wilund succeeded or not.[4][5][6] One tale held that a lady member of the Company of Crazed Venturers boldly escaped from a noble's mansion with the aid of the *Chessmen*; however, this lacked evidence and was likely false.[4]
 
Should it be necessary, there were two ways proposed to destroy the *Magical Chessmen of Ultham-Urre*. The first was to animate them and have them battle each other in a live chess game between the gods Torm and the Red Knight. The other was to have tanar'ri demons use the red set and baatezu devils the green and fight a battle of the Blood War. In either case, regardless of who won (unless it was a stalemate) the whole set would disappear forever.[3]
 
the quote and the abstract code example are both from the Tell one, but ask the others topicthe abstract example should show how complex interacting/collaborations of objects could be; that it is not that easy like Robert Brutigam claim in his quote.
 
So i think i have now a great NOT abstract examples, what was wished by so many of you.Im interested now, how you would model this to full fill Robert Brutigams constraints, which is more or less the same as Demeter had too.
 
Anyway, **my question is how you would model my real-world Robins magic chess game in that way that it full fills the constraint given by Robert Brutigam (see the quote at the beginning) being then a object oriented model that doesn't pul