***The House Next Door: Meet the Blacks 2*** is a 2021 American parody black comedy horror film directed by Deon Taylor, and written by Taylor and Corey Harrell. A sequel to the 2016 film *Meet the Blacks*, it stars Mike Epps and Katt Williams, with Bresha Webb, Lil Duval, Zulay Henao, Tyrin Turner, Michael Blackson, Andrew Bachelor, Gary Owen and Danny Trejo in supporting roles. In the film, which primarily satirizes *Fright Night*, Carl Black (Epps) moves his family back to his childhood home, encountering a mysterious new neighbor (Williams), a pimp who may be a vampire.
 
*The House Next Door* was produced by Taylor's Hidden Empire Film Group and Epps' Naptown Productions, and filmed in Atlanta from October to November 2017. Delayed from original October 2019 release, the film was theatrically released in the United States by Hidden Empire on June 11, 2021. It was a box office bomb and received largely negative reviews from critics.
 
**DOWNLOAD ✑ ✑ ✑ [https://eromdesre.blogspot.com/?d=2A0Syg](https://eromdesre.blogspot.com/?d=2A0Syg)**


 
After surviving the events of the first film and becoming an author, Carl Black moves his family back to his childhood home in Atlanta, where he hopes to continue working on his new book. There, the Blacks encounter their mysterious new next-door neighbor, Dr. Mamuwalde, a pimp whom Carl suspects is a vampire trying to take his family.[3][4]
 
In October 2017, it was reported that Deon Taylor would direct the horror comedy film *The House Next Door*, a sequel to his 2016 film *Meet the Blacks*. Mike Epps would reprise his role of Carl Black from the first film, starring alongside Katt Williams. The two had previously starred together in the 2002 film *Friday After Next*.[5] Other cast members confirmed to be reprising their roles from the first film were Bresha Webb, Zulay Henao, Lil Duval, Andrew Bachelor, Michael Blackson, and Tyrin Turner.[6] In November 2017, it was announced that Rick Ross and Danny Trejo had been cast in the film.[3]
 
The screenplay for *The House Next Door* was written by Taylor and Corey Harrell, based on a story by Harrell.[7] It was produced by Taylor, Roxanne Avent and Omar Joseph through Hidden Empire Film Group, and by Epps, Angi Bones and Shannon McIntosh through Naptown Productions.[8]
 
In February 2019, Taylor posted on Facebook that the film would be released that October.[12][13] However, the film was eventually delayed, and not released into theaters in the United States until June 11, 2021, by Hidden Empire Film Group.[4][8]
 
After surviving a terror-filled night on the West Coast, struggling author Carl Black (Mike Epps) packs up his family and heads back to his childhood home in the Chicago suburbs in search of peace and quiet. Everything is going well until a mysterious eccentric named Doctor Mamuwalde (Katt Williams) moves in next door, and strange things begin to happen in the neighborhood. Carl convinces himself that the man is a vampire who wants to harm his family, and he teams up with his crackpot neighbors to fight the evil demon.
 
**Vampire Chick #2** (Sisse Marie) perfectly embodies a sexy and dangerous female vampire in the film "The House next Door: Meet the Blacks 2". If her name is unknown, she was probably a prostitute before she died and was turned into a cruel bloodsucker by the great master vampire Dr. Mamuwalde. In addition to being a fearsome killer and bodyguard, she remains a whore and a hot lover for her vampire leader. Perhaps a reminiscence of her former life as a prostitute, she seems to hate being called a "bitch"; Although there is no doubt that she is nothing more than a slutty vampire.

From the beginning of the film, the hero who is the father of the "Black" family and a failed writer, surprises this superb creature through his window who is languidly lounging in sexy outfits in the middle of the night in the new neighbor's garden. He and his cousin, who lives in a neighborhood trailer, wonder about the way of life of this intriguing neighbor. Is it a criminal pimp who runs a secret brothel, or is it this serial killer who kidnaps and makes the city's prostitutes disappear? They send a friend of theirs, a curious man in charge of the neighborhood watch to find out the truth. The poor man will not return, falling into the trap of this nest of vampires, and on our blood-sucking female who attacks him, to sink her fangs into his throat.
 
Intrigued by the absence of their friend, the two neighborhood investigators decide to knock on their neighbor's door to question him. While the Master Vampire plays the innocent card, our vampire chick takes care of pressing her horny body against that of the hero's cousin. The latter does not take long to fall into the seduction trap of this vampire bitch. Just like the police who see nothing suspicious in the way of life of these new neighbors. But the insatiable appetite of the vampire clique ends up expanding on prey other than prostitutes, when the leader of the vampires wants to capture and transform the mother of the Black family into a vampire. A strategic error of attacking one of the members of the Black family...
 
Helped by vampire hunters, the whole Black family attacks the mansion of the bloodsucking demons, with the idea of kicking their ass. In a face to face between good and evil, our succubus vampires are indirectly treated as bitches, which does not seem to please them. Judging by her outraged expression, our bloodsucking female doesn't like being insulted, and she wants to wash away the affront in the blood of her irreverent opponents. Our vampire girl plays her role of protector and takes out her fangs to defend her master and her scorned honor. In the fight she quickly takes the advantage over the hero's cousin and daughter, propelling them both to the ground. In a last dash, she throws herself on Allie, the hero's daughter, to give her the last fatal bite... But that's when the cousin of the Black family intervenes, who uses two UV flashlights to push back the cruel threat. As she takes the light in the face, our vampire chick seems to lose her luster as she moans pitifully in pain.
 
Our villain suffers an atrocious and painful death; Our two heroes slowly burning her horrified face, while inflicting on her a recital of the worst insults. In fact, it's quite funny and enjoyable to see the roles reversed, and our two heroes take sadistic pleasure in insulting her while she burns, screaming in pain. In short, a tragic end for a vampire bitch whose name we will never know.
 
Despite iffy content, a message that family should come first, that parents should listen to their children -- and vice versa. Stresses importance of honesty and communication in family relationships.
 
Woman in bikini/short shorts, with her buttocks mostly out. Character talks about wanting significant other to perform oral sex. A character seems to have an orgasm (she touches herself over her clothes, but it's like she's being invisibly touched). Quick glimpse of a woman's breasts during a striptease. "Me So Horny" song plays in a scene.
 
Parents need to know that The House Next Door: Meet the Blacks 2 is the sequel to the 2016 horror spoof Meet the Blacks. While the first movie was based on The Purge, this one is more broadly inspired by vampire-next-door stories. Characters use supernatural weapons (like UV light) to fight and kill various vampires, and vampires bite people. Expect nonstop strong language, including the "N" word, "f--k," "s--t," "bitch," "d--k," "retarded," and much more. There are also crass jokes and comments about sex/sexual positions and one brief scene of bare breasts during a striptease. Characters talk about pot smoking, and adults drink at a party. Most of the cast from the original returns, with the addition of Katt Williams as a mysterious neighbor. To stay in the loop on more movies like this, you can sign up for weekly Family Movie Night emails.
 
In THE HOUSE NEXT DOOR: MEET THE BLACKS 2, the Blacks have lost the majority of their money and have had to move back to Carl's (Mike Epps) hometown, Atlanta. He's supposed to be writing a follow-up to his once-bestselling book about surviving the Purge (based on the events of the first movie), but he can't even muster up one sentence. Carl and his wife, Lorena (Zulay Henao), are also dealing with marital stress, since she has to work overtime to pay the bills. Carl's cousin Cronut (Lil Duval), who lives in an RV parked in front of the house, notices that their new neighbors only come out at night and starts insisting that they must be vampires. This feeling is magnified when they eventually meet the elusive homeowner, Dr. Mamuwalde (Katt Williams), who seems to have supernatural powers, including a sexual magnetism that affects both Lorena and Carl's daughter, Allie (Bresha Webb). With the help of a neighbor (Danny Trejo) and self-proclaimed vampire slayer Mr. Wooky (Michael Blackson), Carl and Cronut plan their ambush of the neighbor's lair.
 
This unnecessary sequel is crasser and even less entertaining than the original, which was neither funny nor scary. There's not much to say about The House Next Door: Meet the Blacks 2 except that it will appeal solely to fans of Williams, who at least looks like he's enjoying the ridiculous role of a vampire lord with supernatural sexual powers. The movie's production values are startlingly low, with amateurish special effects. Trejo, who's usually a pleasure to see, doesn't have enough to do to make a positive impact. Epps doesn't do much more than stare at a blank computer monitor and have recycled conversations with the rest of the cast. And Henao, who added a welcome step-maternal touch in the first movie, isn't even in most of the first half.
 
The two kids also have diminished roles in the sequel, although Freezee (Andrew Bachelor) is back as Allie's boyfriend who has a Purge-related disability. Williams is a 